A popular tool in the modding community titled Wexos Toolbox has been found to upload the users IP address and PC name to the author. Announcements were made about it on popular modding Discord Servers, recommending people to either remove the software or firewall it. While I'm not too active in the modding community and I do find the privacy breach unnecessary, I do believe that the response has been a bit overblown.

Privacy in general is just not something that's so concerning now-a-days. Anytime you even sneeze at google, they'll update their data about you to add more food to the obese database. It's inevitable that you'll be forced to use privacy-leaking software either for school, work or general every-day life. Zoom has over 300 million users and their data has been leaked on the dark web for all the stalkers to start traveling across the country to spy on. Yet, schools distance from it as much as it distances from a non-social environment learning during a pandemic, which means its not distancing itself from Zoom at all.

- Visiting anything on the internet exposes your IP. While it is the softwares choice to grab and store it, you have no control whether an IP gets sent or not. Unfortunately, many popular software stores your IP, such as Discord (where most of the people in the modding community are).
- Even if the software grabs your IP, it's not accurate enough to determine your home address. The highest level risk is possibly the town name, which chances are you live with many other people in the town. People are highly unlikely to fly over to where you live, kidnap everyone and find one person that knows of your identity and snitch you out.
- It's highly likely that you already exposed yourself via much more riskier methods, such as sending photos of yourself. EXIF tags are much 
- Now, I ask why this is announced when it's [already stated](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/742488001296334888/783453475690119178/EoFiKQOXEAAM2jZ.png) when you first download/use the app. Sure, you glanced over this back when you were downloading because you already 